We are assuming that we are the head of a real estate company and our goal is to segment the housing market based on various property characteristics. In real estate, the ability to segment the housing market is a pivotal strategic tool for a company's leadership. Sorting homes, regions, etc. into distinct clusters based on characteristics such as location, value trends, demographic data, and other pertinent factors opens the door for a real estate company to take advantage of market segments with high growth potential and becomes aware of potential risks. By pinpointing segments that appear poised for growth, the company can focus their attention and resources in areas that are likely to yield high returns on investment. We are looking to identify underlying patterns that may guide investment strategies, optimize marketing initiatives and enhance customer engagment.

A real estate company must consider potential risks such as economic fluctuations, regulatory changes, and environmental factors. By understanding which market segments are more vulnerable to such risks, the company can devise strategies to shield its investments and maintain a stable growth trajectory.

We plan to do various types of clustering based on different features in our dataset and thus will use models such as K-Means, GMM, Agglomerative clustering and DBSCAN. This will give us multiple perspectives for how to segmnent the market for effecive targeting. To measure the success of the clustering, our company will use various performance metrics such as Silhouette scores and BICs. 

For example, we may use K-Means Clustering to segment properties into groups based on home values, geographic information or other numerical features. It would be useful to apply K-Means to cluster based off ZHVI, and have each cluster represent properties with similar value trends. As far as GMMs, we can use them if we encounter clusters that are not spherical or have different variances. It will likely be beneficial to ues GMM for segmenting based on rent distributions from the ZORI dataset and home values from the ZHVI dataset. This can help to identify overlapping and nuanced segments and estimate probabilities of each property belonging to each segment. DBSCAN will be useful for identifying outliers and clusters of high-density areas. We may use DBSCAN on geographic data to find densely populated clusters which can allow the company to detect areas that have lots of real estate activity or under-served regions. 

By working to segment the housing market and optimize our clustering metrics, the company will increase its competitive edge and create sustainable growth.
